##Project 1: Linear Regression with Basis Functions

## General Requirements
Please make sure to import all the following files in your workspace before running the program:-
* project1.m (Main program and the starting point)
* project1_data.mat (Stores the Input and Target data needed for the program)
* mu_cfs.mat (This file will be needed for importing the mu_cfs. It's not generated every time.)
* mu_gd.mat (This file will be needed for importing the mu_cfs. It's not generated every time.)
* train_cfs.m (Training implementation for closed form solution and is referenced from the main program)
* train_gd.m (Training implementation for stochastic gradient descent and is referenced from the main program)
* test_cfs.m (Implementation to test the learnt algorithm for closed form solution and is referenced from the main program)
* test_gd.m (Implementation to test the learnt algorithm for stochastic gradient descent and is referenced from the main program)

# Methods and Method Signatures
* train_cfs(Input_Matrix,Target_Matrix,Mu) 
    - Input_Matrix - N*D matrix which represents N datasets each of D dimensional feature. This can be loaded from project1_data.mat
	- Target_Matrix - N*1 matrix which represents N targets for each of the dataset. This can be loaded from project1_data.mat
	- Mu - Mean required for calculating the gaussian distribution. This can be loaded from mu_cfs.mat. This won't be generated separately in the training implementation.
	
	Returns:-
	- M_cfs - Calculated value of Model Complexity (M) returned by the learnt algorithm.
	- lambda_cfs - Calculated value of Lambda (the regularization parameter).
	- W_cfs - Calculated Weight values. It should be a M*1 matrix where M is the model complexity.
	- S_cfs - Calculated value of Sigma (Variance) for the gaussian distribution.
	
* test_cfs(InputMatrixForTesting,TargetforTesting,M,Mu,W_Cfs,Sigma)
	- InputMatrixForTesting - N'*D matrix which represents N' datasets each of D dimensional feature. It is a partitioned matrix which consists of a total of 10% of the total dataset.
	- TargetforTesting - N'*1 matrix which represents N' targets for each of the dataset in the InputMatrixForTesting. 
	- M - Model Complexity generated by the learning algorithm i.e., train_cfs function.
	- Mu - Mean required for calculating the gaussian distribution.
	- W_Cfs - Calculated weights generated by the learning algorithm.
	- Sigma - Calculated variance returned by the learning algorithm.
	Returns:-
	- Error - Root mean square error generated for the testing data from the parameter and hyper-parameters passed by the learning algorithm.
	
* train_gd(Input_Matrix,Target_Matrix,Mu) 
    - Input_Matrix - N*D matrix which represents N datasets each of D dimensional feature. This can be loaded from project1_data.mat
	- Target_Matrix - N*1 matrix which represents N targets for each of the dataset. This can be loaded from project1_data.mat
	- Mu - Mean required for calculating the gaussian distribution. This can be loaded from mu_gd.mat. This won't be generated separately in the training implementation.
	
	Returns:-
	- M_gd - Calculated value of Model Complexity (M) returned by the learnt algorithm.
	- lambda_gd - Calculated value of Lambda (the regularization parameter).
	- W_gd - Calculated Weight values. It should be a M*1 matrix where M is the model complexity.
	- S_gd - Calculated value of Sigma (Variance) for the gaussian distribution.

* test_gd(InputMatrixForTesting,TargetforTesting,M,Mu,W_gd,Sigma)
	- InputMatrixForTesting - N'*D matrix which represents N' datasets each of D dimensional feature. It is a partitioned matrix which consists of a total of 10% of the total dataset.
	- TargetforTesting - N'*1 matrix which represents N' targets for each of the dataset in the InputMatrixForTesting. 
	- M - Model Complexity generated by the learning algorithm i.e., train_gd function.
	- Mu - Mean required for calculating the gaussian distribution.
	- W_gd - Calculated weights generated by the learning algorithm.
	- Sigma - Calculated variance returned by the learning algorithm.
	Returns:-
	- Error - Root mean square error generated for the testing data from the parameter and hyper-parameters passed by the learning algorithm.
Note : Mean (Mu) for Closed form solution and Gradient Descent won't be calculated in the program. It should be imported by the respective mat files. 



## Author
Animesh Kumar

